# Final Documentation

## Process
I started out with the idea to make a Joust arcade game clone in the 3D space. But very quickly realized that this would not be a possible project because it was far too involved and the scope was a little outside of my current ability. So I transitioned to trying to create a game similar to Smash Hit which is available in the app store and involves throwing marbles at glass barrierrs while moving through a 3D space. But after toying around with this concept a little it was still going to be too daunting a task to accomplish in this time frame. At this point I had already begun designing my 3D models for a balloon and a cactus because I knew wanted to make a themed game of some sort. And then I realized that the idea of firing cactus spikes at a balloon reminded me very much of a carnival dart throwing game and that seemed like something I could conceptualize and puzzle through with code. 
I started with my GLTF loaded 3D models on an empty plane. I knew I was going to use physical computing for the controls in the game so I wired up a potentiometer and a button and got that code functioning properly first. Then I connected the cactus' movement in the X to the potentiometer and got that functioning. Next I got the button connected to the cactus spikes so that whenever I pressed the button, a spike would spawn and fire from the cactus' mouth. My next challenge was figuring out how to get the spikes to collide with and pop the balloons and fortuitously, we had just learned about the Cannon.js library which has collisions. So I got the spike to connect to a sphere body that moves in the z direction with added velocity and gravity and then I made the balloon a collision hit box and made it so whenever the spike hits a balloon the balloon and spike would be removed from the scene and the body and collision box would be removed from the world. Next I scaled up and added 16 balloons in a 4x4 pattern onto a plane in front of the cactus. It took a lot of fine tuning to get the collision hit boxes to properly line up with the balloon meshes but eventually that was functioning properly
At this point I had finished most of the mechanics of the game so I began to focus on world-building and polish elements. First I made the background a light blue to mimic the sky, added a ground plane that I textured with a desert sand texture, and built a little western-esque shack with a variety of wood textures around the balloons so it looked like a little carnival stall in the desert. I created some barrels to put on the sides of the shack because it just felt like a nice piece of ambience. The next isssue I ran into was dealing with how to insert text, I wanted to use a cute western themed font to tie the game theme together. It took some puzzling through during class to figure out how to get the JSON file to be read properly but eventually we got it figured out. Once it was figured out, I added text for the title, Sharpshooter, and some basic instructions as well. And then the last piece that I worked on was adding little signs on either side of the balloons that tracked how many bullets had been fired and how many balloons had been popped. This also took a little puzzling to get the bullet and balloon text to update properly but I figured out how to implement it in the animate loop and it worked swimmingly. 
The last day before the project was due, I spent a solid 6 hours trying to convert my code into MVC style, I made all of the separate classes and thought I had formatted it properly but when I implemented it, it was unsuccessful even after some adjustments. So I had to revert back to my unorganized code. However this had no impact on the functioning thankfully. So in the end I have a final product that feels complete and that I am proud of, obviously would have been nice to have proper MVC formatting as well but I'm glad that I at least gave it a try. 